I prayed to Jehovah,
“If it is your will, I would be happy
to enter pioneer service.”
But I had to work really hard
to provide for the needs of my family
because my father had died
when he was 45 years old.
The elder that I talked to
gave me advice not to be picky
about what kind of job I could get.
He reminded me of Matthew 6:33,
and told me
not to be overly anxious.
Because of our good communication
within the family,
we were able to find solutions.
My other siblings realized
that they also shared
responsibility in providing
for the needs of the family.
After one year of pioneering,
I was encouraged to apply for Bethel service,
and now I am in Bethel.
I feel that Jehovah really cares for me,
loves me,
and appreciates all my efforts.
Because they love me, my cousins
pressured me to choose a secular career.
If I went against
their wishes, it would hurt them
and put a strain on our relationship.
I was really anxious.
I wanted to show my trust
in Jehovah by pioneering
and give him an opportunity to show me
that I can be happy in his service.
I tried to express my appreciation
for my cousins by what
I said and did
and showed them love.
They’ve realized
that I have changed for the better.
I show more concern for others now.
Now they understand that we have been
learning good things and that we have
a happier and more meaningful life.
I wanted to try serving
where the need was great.
When I first arrived,
I thought it was so cool being there.
I had expected the poverty,
but when I saw it,
it hit home more than what I had expected.
So then I started to feel really homesick.
But my brothers and sisters—
I’d go to the Kingdom Hall and they
were able to cope with the challenges
that they were facing because they had
Jehovah in their life.
So their example really helped me to see
that my circumstances
don’t need to change
for my attitude to change.
Proverbs 15:15 stood out to me,
which is about having “a cheerful heart”
and being able to have “a continual feast”
no matter what my circumstances are.
And I found an article about that scripture.
And so from there, I decided to ask myself,
‘How can I use my situation
and what I’m learning to help others?’
And I got to start helping
with a foreign-language group there.
That whole experience
just made my love for people grow so much
and definitely changed my life.